DOC-1416: REST API Tutorial Page (#1951)
RedisLabs/redislabs-docs: content/rs/references/rest-api/quick-start.md

---
Title: Redis Enterprise Software REST API quick start
linkTitle: Quick Start
description: Redis Enterprise Software REST API quick start
weight: 20
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RS"]
aliases:
---

Redis Enterprise Software includes a REST API that allows you to automate certain tasks. This article contains examples of ways to send a Redis Enterprise Software REST API request.

## Fundamentals

No matter which method you use to send API requests, there are a few common concepts to remember.

| Type | Description |
|------|-------------|

> | [Authentication]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api#authentication">}}) | Use [Basic Auth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication) with your cluster username and password |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Authentication]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api#authentication">}}) | Use [Basic Auth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication) with your cluster username (email) and password |
```

| [Ports]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api#ports">}}) | All calls are made to port 9443 by default |

> | [Versions]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api#ports">}}) | Specify the version in the request [URI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Versions]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api#versions">}}) | Specify the version in the request [URI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier) |
```

| [Headers]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api#headers">}}) | `Accept` and `Content-Type` should be `application/json` |

> | [Response types and error codes]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api#response-types-and-error-codes">}}) | A response of `200 OK` means success, otherwise, there was an error |  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Response types and error codes]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api#response-types-and-error-codes">}}) | A response of `200 OK` means success; otherwise, the request failed due to an error |  
```

| -k     | Turn off SSL  verification |
| -i     | Show headers and status code as well as the response body |

See the [cURL documentation](https://curl.se/docs/) for more info.

### GET request

Use the following cURL command to get a list of databases with the [GET `/v1/bdbs/`]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/requests/bdbs/#get-all-bdbs" >}}) endpoint.

```sh
$ curl -X GET -H "accept: application/json" \
              -u "[username]:[password]" \
              https://[host][:port]/v1/bdbs -k -i

HTTP/1.1 200 OK
server: envoy
date: Tue, 14 Jun 2022 19:24:30 GMT
content-type: application/json
content-length: 2833
cluster-state-id: 42
x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 25

[
    {
        ...
        "name": "tr01",
        ...
        "uid": 1,
        "version": "6.0.16",
        "wait_command": true
    }
]
```

In this object, the `uid` is the database ID. You can use the database ID to view or update the database using the API.

For more info on the fields returned by [GET `/v1/bdbs/`]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/requests/bdbs/#get-all-bdbs" >}}), see the [`bdbs` object]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/objects/bdb/" >}}).

### PUT request

> Once you have the database ID, you can use [PUT `/v1/bdbs/`]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/requests/bdbs/#put-bdbs" >}}) to update the configuration of the database.
> 
> ```sh

Reviewer: I thought this example could use a little more explanation.
```suggestion
Once you have the database ID, you can use [PUT `/v1/bdbs/`]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/requests/bdbs/#put-bdbs" >}}) to update the configuration of the database.

For example, you can pass the database `uid` 1 as a URL parameter and use the `-d` option to specify the new `name` when you send the request. This changes the database's `name` from `tr01` to `database1`:

```sh
```

$ curl -X PUT -H "accept: application/json" \
            -H "content-type: application/json" \
            -u "cameron.bates@redis.com:test123" \
            https://[host]:[port]/v1/bdbs/1 \
            -d '{ "name": "database1" }' -k -i
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
server: envoy
date: Tue, 14 Jun 2022 20:00:25 GMT
content-type: application/json
content-length: 2933
cluster-state-id: 43
x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 159

{
    ...
    "name" : "database1",
    ...
    "uid" : 1,
    "version" : "6.0.16",
    "wait_command" : true
}
```

For more info on the fields required by [PUT `/v1/bdbs/`]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/requests/bdbs/#put-bdbs" >}}), see the [`bdbs` object]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/objects/bdb/" >}}).

## More examples

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add a sentence that explains that you can also use client libraries to make requests with your preferred language.

To follow these examples, you need:

- A [Redis Enterprise Software]({{<relref "/rs/installing-upgrading/get-started-redis-enterprise-software">}}) node
- Python 3 and the [requests](https://pypi.org/project/requests/) Python library
- [node.js](https://nodejs.dev/) and [node-fetch](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-fetch)

### Python

```python
import json
import requests

> # Information needed for this example - replace with your host, port, username, and password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Required connection information - replace with your host, port, username, and password
```

host = "[host]"
port = "[port]"
username = "[username]"
password = "[password]"

> # Get list of databases using GET /v1/bdbs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Get the list of databases using GET /v1/bdbs
```

bdbs_uri = "https://{}:{}/v1/bdbs".format(host, port)

print("GET {}".format(bdbs_uri))
get_resp = requests.get(bdbs_uri,
        auth = (username, password),
        headers = { "accept" : "application/json" },
        verify = False)

print("{} {}".format(get_resp.status_code, get_resp.reason))
for header in get_resp.headers.keys():
    print("{}: {}".format(header, get_resp.headers[header]))

print("\n" + json.dumps(get_resp.json(), indent=4))

> # Update all databases with a new name using PUT /v1/bdbs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Rename all databases using PUT /v1/bdbs
```

for bdb in get_resp.json():

>     uid = bdb["uid"] #get the database ID from the json response

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    uid = bdb["uid"] # Get the database ID from the JSON response
```

See: https://urllib3.readthedocs.io/en/1.26.x/advanced-usage.html#ssl-warnings
  warnings.warn(
200 OK
server: envoy
date: Wed, 15 Jun 2022 15:49:43 GMT
content-type: application/json
content-length: 2832
cluster-state-id: 89
x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 27

[
    {
        ...
        "name": "tr01",
        ...
        "uid": 1,
        "version": "6.0.16",
        "wait_command": true
    }
]

PUT https://[host]:[port]/v1/bdbs/1 {"name": "database1"}
InsecureRequestWarning: Unverified HTTPS request is being made to host '[host]'.
Adding certificate verification is strongly advised.
See: https://urllib3.readthedocs.io/en/1.26.x/advanced-usage.html#ssl-warnings
  warnings.warn(
200 OK
server: envoy
date: Wed, 15 Jun 2022 15:49:43 GMT
content-type: application/json
content-length: 2933
cluster-state-id: 90
x-envoy-upstream-service-time: 128

{
    ...
    "name" : "database1",
    ...
    "uid" : 1,
    "version" : "6.0.16",
    "wait_command" : true
}
```

### node.js

```js
import fetch, { Headers } from 'node-fetch';
import * as https from 'https';

const HOST = '[host]';
const PORT = '[port]';
const USERNAME = '[username]';
const PASSWORD = '[password]';

> // Get list of databases using GET /v1/bdbs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Get the list of databases using GET /v1/bdbs
```

const BDBS_URI = `https://${HOST}:${PORT}/v1/bdbs`;
const USER_CREDENTIALS = Buffer.from(`${USERNAME}:${PASSWORD}`).toString('base64');
const AUTH_HEADER = `Basic ${USER_CREDENTIALS}`;

console.log(`GET ${BDBS_URI}`);

const HTTPS_AGENT = new https.Agent({
    rejectUnauthorized: false
});

const response = await fetch(BDBS_URI, {
    method: 'GET',
    headers: {
        'Accept': 'application/json',
        'Authorization': AUTH_HEADER
    },
    agent: HTTPS_AGENT
});

const responseObject = await response.json();
console.log(`${response.status}: ${response.statusText}`);
console.log(responseObject);

> // Update all databases with a new name using PUT /v1/bdbs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Rename all databases using PUT /v1/bdbs
```

## Fundamentals

No matter which method you use to send API requests, there are a few common concepts to remember.

| Type | Description |
|------|-------------|
| [Authentication]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api#authentication">}}) | Use [Basic Auth](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication) with your cluster username (email) and password |
| [Ports]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api#ports">}}) | All calls are made to port 9443 by default |
| [Versions]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api#versions">}}) | Specify the version in the request [URI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uniform_Resource_Identifier) |
| [Headers]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api#headers">}}) | `Accept` and `Content-Type` should be `application/json` |
| [Response types and error codes]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api#response-types-and-error-codes">}}) | A response of `200 OK` means success; otherwise, the request failed due to an error |  

For more information, see [Redis Enterprise Software REST API]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/">}}).

> ## cURL Example Requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## cURL example requests
```
